# Product Analysis

### Project Overview 
This project analyzes stationery sales perfomance over the past 4 years so as to identity order trends,product preferences based on customers and get a clear understanding of the sales trajectory,supply chain productivity and gauge progress and insights for better decision making in a bid to optimize sales.

The insights are then created into visuals on both Tableau and Excel, interactive slicers are used to filter and drill down the visuals using specific metrics as per the dataset.

### Data Sources
The dataset contains 3 csv files with details on the company's orders taken,products sold and the account managers responsible for every transaction over the period.

### Data Tools
- MySQL - Data Cleaning & Data Analysis
- Excel - Power Query & Dashboard
- Tableau - Visuals

  ### Data Cleaning/Preparation
  **Data Integration**: Imported the 3 csv files into MySQL database inspected the data and cleaned the data for insights by checking for duplicates, missing values and formatting the date column.
  I used JOINS to effectively connect the dataset for real-time insights.

### Exploratory Data Analytics 
The primary KPI's for the project are:
1.  Total Revenue by each product category?
2.  How many unique products have been ordered?
3.  Total Revenue generated each year?
4.  The Dates of the earliest and latest order?
5.  Product Category with the lowest average price of product?
6.  Top 10 highest performing products?
7.  Total Revenue & Profit generated by each account manager?
8.  Name,City and Account Manager of highest selling product in 2017?

### Data Analysis
In the analysis,some of the queries used for insights gathering are:
```sql
SELECT Extract(Year from order_date) Year
       Round(Sum(total),2) Revenue
FROM Orders;
```

```sql
SELECT Product_category,
       Round(Avg(Retail_price) Avg_price
FROM Orders,
LEFT JOIN  Products
         USING (Product_id)
GROUP By Product_category
ORDER BY Avg_price
LIMIT 1;
```
      
### Findings 
The following observations were made from the queries:
|Year|Revenue|
|----|----|
|2013|185,547.20|
|2014|339,841.08|
|2015|383,167.13|
|2016|273,561.12|
1. There was a drastic decrease of revenue generated in the year **2016** that had a revenue of **$273,561.12** compared to the previous year **2015** which had a revenue of **$383,167.13**
2. **Office Supplies** category had the lowest average price of its products with an average price of **$17.9**

### Recommendations
- There's need fir implementing customer segmentation approach to target high revenue generating customers.
- Focus on expanding and promoting products in the Office Supplies and Technology category.
-  Give incentives to best performing Account Managers and reduced discounts to customers to motivate and improve sales.

